you know so I think that if you miss out
on your life essentially because you're
always trying to go for that arrive at
that place the place won't come because
you're patterning yourself for that
mindset at some point I'll be there now
so it's love if that's your mindset that
you're patterning there's no such thing
is there it's just false summit after
false summon after false summit so the
sooner that you can get to the point
more like that child and enjoy the
process of rolling over to your side and
standing up and walking and smiling and
then eventually you will arrive everyone
welcome to hell theory
today's guest is Aron Alexander he's a
manual therapist and movement coach
known for his work with some of the
world's most accomplished athletes and
celebrities he's also a sought-after
speaker on the topics of movement and
wellness the host of the top-rated
align podcast and the author of the
upcoming book the align method Aaron
there's a lot of alignment concepts in
your work and I would love to know one
what is the alignment method what's all
that about and how did it get started
say a line method is this gonna be
around a way a roundabout way to
describe what the heck the align method
is there's an interesting quote from
philosopher called Alvin Toffler
and said the successful people the
future will be able to learn unlearn and
relearn and so what the align method
breaks down is how do we start to
integrate more effective principles of
movement and to let it literally every
aspect of our lives so that includes the
way that you sit the way that you stand
the way that you breathe the way that
you walk body language the way that you
communicate sounds that you have in your
surrounding environment all affects your
physiology site what you're looking at
or not looking at you know so we can
start to tap into all of these kind of
like divergent aspects of movement that
have been on the outskirts but I think
are actually the underlying foundation
of our health one of the things that you
talk about a lot that I find super
interesting is how our body posture our
body language is connected to our brain
what are some of the key notions around
that that people may not be aware of
yeah so there's all sorts of interesting
research around body language and
movement affecting one just obviously
you know like like dance is one of the
most effective tools for staving off
cognitive dysfunction so one your body
processes sound or your brain processes
sound in a totally separate portion of
the brain it has its own storage house
for it like music is coming you know so
okay I turn these other parts when I
start moving and you know you have that
sensation when you're here like your
favorite song and all of a sudden like
your whole physiology changes you know
way different than that somebody you
know is just having a conversation in
the background so it's literally tapping
on a different part of the brain music
and then coordinating yourself to that
sound and then there's the social
engagement aspect of dance so just that
connection with another person literally
starts to heal your nervous system and
puts you into more of like a rest digest
healing type state and you know you're
moving around you're smiling you're
taking yourself less seriously you know
so there's a lot of the the things that
we that's the scientific lens isolates
it shines the flashlight on you know we
have these polysyllabic words like this
is what's happening but I think
underneath that dance starts to tap into
some of them are like the magic aspects
of being a person yeah so I think a lot
about state change and the ability to
take control of your your psychological
state so I take a lot of cold showers
and one thing that I found was I started
to really hate them so I'd been taking
them probably for about eight months and
I was just like oh why am I doing this
and like all of my connection to the
sort of physiological impact and how
important it was began to wane and like
my enthusiasm was really beginning to
slip for it and so I thought what I
should be doing is taking the time
instead of just getting into the cold
water and really hating it to change my
state to use it as a way to practice
that state change so I would put on
music that would put me into a more
aggressive state of mind so I sort of
attacked the cold shower and I found
that really powerful as a way to
practice my state change which then made
the cold showers feel very different but
I find that music is the easiest way for
me to radically alter
yeah you have do you work with people on
that at all now particularly you know so
like what I've noticed happen over the
years is the conversations and end up
manifesting themselves as we're going
through different you know unwinding
adhesions and stuck postural patterns
all of a sudden people start you know
everybody's heard of like going to get a
massage and having tears and you know
sensations like that but it's
fascinating watching the different
conversations that a person will start
to tap into and having memories of
things moments with their mother or
their father and you know so it's that's
been the really interesting thing that
I've seen kind of changed over the years
is how our postural patterns really are
directly tied into the way that we're
thinking we're feeling you know and
music I think is a really great tool to
start to tap into that talk to me about
Rolfing so I've heard of it I don't know
a lot about it what's the core thesis if
that's the yeah so it shares a lot of
principles from like osteopathic
medicine and essentially the focus of it
is if we can get the physical body to
come into alignment then you know
essentially we're like stacking up all
of the pipes and as you're stacking up
all the joints you're stacking up the
the nervous system tissue and the
cardiovascular tissue and there's to
think if like your body essentially is
like a pond and so you want all of those
hoses for that pump system to be open so
that they can flow and then circulate
the fluid inside that pond and if you
can be well circulated pond then you're
a healthy pond
most of us in modern culture are moving
in such a way like the mold that were
housed in is such a way that it kind of
closes up and kinks some of those hoses
you know and then instead of going into
more of like a structural route we end
up seeking out supplements and seeking
out various different type of you know
rehab and such but the initial
foundation of Rolfing or Osteopathy is
that we can align the system and then
the body will start to begin to heal
itself and how does Rolfing differ from
chiropractic chiropractic is focusing
more on high velocity adjustments so
we're going you're getting that that
cavitation that pop Rolfing is focusing
on
connective tissue or fascia and it's
more of like a slow velocity adjustment
and so it's also emphasizing working in
the space between muscles called the
muscular septa so as you're going
through and working with that connective
tissue the goal is for your body all of
your sliding surfaces to be able to do
this you know see you instead of
thinking of yourself as like six hundred
and forty odd muscles individual muscles
you can think of yourself as like six
hundred and forty pockets and it's that
relationship of those pockets if they
start to get bound and stuck together
then that will change the shape of your
movement change the shape of your
movement now of a sudden you start to
have this it's like a rut you know so
every time you breathe you're literally
practicing that breath pattern you know
so when someone's breathing in such a
way that puts them into more of like a
fight flight panic type place ie your
shoulders are hunched up to your ears
and you're kind of activating all these
muscles and you're like could please
someone just rub my shoulders you know
it's like the issue may not be coming
from the actual you know
sternocleidomastoid or trapezius or
scalenes or whatever it might actually
be coming from
perhaps your physiology still being
stuck in some of what of like a fearful
state not feeling safe in the room not
feeling safe in your family not feeling
safe in your life and so you can start
to speak into that felt state of the
person manually with you know physical
manipulations or exercise or dance or
you can speak into the physical body via
talk therapy and via meditation and be
you know all these other places so you
can go top-down or bottom-up it's two
sides of the same rope one thing I have
found is that the way that I hold myself
really does make a difference when
people talk about power posing and
things like that like there's really
stuff that actually has a pretty big
impact on how I feel in terms of
reducing anxiety or making me feel more
confident is that where this all sort of
tends to play it so that's it there's
there's various different studies to
show like that like one interesting one
is just by putting a golf tee in around
your brow so and and so kind of
contracting the brow kind of putting
into like resting [__] type
position literally starts to
make people perceive the world is more
annoying and being like I feel a little
bit angrier you know and the same thing
when you raise somebody if you notice if
you put a pencil right here here I got a
horrendous day in that smile position
all of a sudden you're starting to tap
into that at least your lifetime perhaps
Millennia's of lifetime that when I go
like this it means something good is
happening and it's important if you are
smiling you want to smile with the your
eyes as well doesn't need to be in a
diabolical way fake the smile with your
eyes as well and that will be a more
true indication that you're actually
feeling well that cool
one thing that I've talked before so
anybody who's super familiar with the
show will will have heard this but when
my wife and I were early in our
relationship I had read a study about
the holding the pencil in the mouth and
how faking a smile can actually change
your neuro chemistry I thought whoa that
if that's true that's really profound
like what if I could really change my
neuro chemistry just by forcing myself
to laugh out loud what are some other
things like that that people can deploy
in their life to put themselves into a
better place you're kind of describing
them you know so something that's
interesting is as you're describing just
simply like laughing that's been
hardwired into your system as something
that calms you down you know so it's an
indication that you're doing well so
there's that part like the anchored part
but literally just that exhalation that
or or playing a flute or singing it
after you do all of those things you
feel so much better because you're
literally playing your physiology you
know so as opposed to if you get
surprised obviously in you go you know
so you're playing your physiology saying
okay one time to light up and go we got
to bust the door down and get out of
here versus it's like oh we're having
sex or we're laughing and we're playing
a song you know so you can start to tap
into all of those ancient physiological
systems just through doing something as
simple as like having a laugh you could
like laugh therapy go to like laugh yoga
or something like that
very interesting you have experimented
with
psychedelics yes sure so what is what's
been some of the learnings from that
what is if anything the the stripping of
the ego or the dissolution of the sense
of self like is that your experience and
has it been beneficial yeah for me it's
been really beneficial
you know like ramadasa he talks about to
get eventually to become nobody is kind
of the goal you first need to become
somebody and he says we grow up being
raised by professional somebody errs you
know so like your mom and your dad and
Shay like your mom she's like she's a
mother and she's a cook and she's a
maybe she's a singer and she has all
these things that makes her somebody and
your dad he's an accountant and he's
drives this nice car and somebody you
know and so that's what we identify with
but all that stuff can be taken away
right away you know underneath all that
somebody Ness is that ocean of oh wow
we're all actually probably kind of
similar we're probably about the same
thing and I've actually had this
experience almost like the first time
that I've ever experienced
really feeling safe and really feeling
loved was during experiences one
particular with five Meo DMT which is
comes from a toad in Mexico and it's
considered to be like one of the most
potent psychedelics and it's a really
fast experience so it lasts for about
six minutes during that experience I had
a really fascinating moment of feeling
as though all of this contraction of
Aaron you know and guarding my heart and
you know having to be perceived as being
strong or thinking that I have to be in
order to be loved you know or I have
enough money or I have enough success
and all that stuff those were all almost
like like binds that I hold and in that
moment for that span of six minutes all
of a sudden it felt as though all those
binds just like washed out my feet and
in that moment it's like oh wow like
that's actually the sensation of love
you know and I think that we can find I
think human connection is an example of
a psychedelic experience or maybe going
for a trip you could travel to another
country it's like oh you're having it
you're going having a trip you know so
you have a seven-day trip in Italy and
that will change your perspective d
tribal eyes you like there's
Campbell talked or perhaps if you don't
have the money or the resources at the
time maybe you could do a six-hour trip
and invest in some psilocybin and get a
guide and you know go up in the
mountains and do that instead so that
was that was a fascinating moment was
realizing viscerally in that moment the
amount of fear and contraction that I've
carried in my body for I don't know how
long a long time how do you bring that
back and make that useful in your
everyday life
I think practicing compassion is really
big then you practice compassion right
now you know we can do it you know see
like before we were talking like going
past all of the kind of like the busy
how's the weather kind of talk and
connecting with person a person that at
a deeper level asking more I don't want
to say penetrating questions but just
like going outside of the the [__]
with people and I think any time you're
in the grocery line with somebody and
they are checking you out or you're
getting a coffee or whatever like really
looking at somebody in the eyes like pay
attention the color of people's eyes
that's actually something that I have
new line method book you know like so
your mission throughout the the week if
you want to have homework is each day as
you're walking around you're getting
your coffee and you're doing an
interview or you're going to work like
when you're walking past a person make
an effort to recognize the color of that
person's eyes and what you'll notice
with that is till start to see a really
beautiful human being in front of you
you know instead of I think like
normalcy like that's a disease you know
if you look around and you think the
world is just like everything's just
normal you know it's like no you're
missing out on the miracle of being here
right now
you know and that's back to the
psychedelic thing that's like literally
exactly what psychedelics I think a
primary purpose of them is it gives you
for that moment it gives you a window in
more of a child's mind again you know
and so as we become adult everything
just becomes these rote kind of there's
just minutia we just kind of go through
the go through the steps and I think
that's like the build up of a myth
life crisis waiting to happen you know
you're like [__] I want my 30 years back
you know but meanwhile and anytime we
can start to actually look in and notice
the color of each other's eyes and like
experience the magic of that moment
let's go a little deeper into what makes
for the magic in a moment so if I'm
hearing you right so adulthood is sort
of the layering of different identities
it's the sense that I'm supposed to be
some way I'm supposed to sit up straight
it's it feels like like you're saying
there's like a calcification of things
and Men maybe I'm delusional I am truly
open to that but I hear people
oftentimes talk about kids as if they
are idyllic and I will definitely
subscribe more to I was such a [__]
when I was a kid I did not have deep
wisdom I was [__] terrified I did not
understand myself I did not understand
my place in the universe like nothing
about childhood felt empowering and in
many ways my adult life is is a somewhat
violent reaction to how out of control I
felt as a kid how the world did not make
sense I was under other people's thumbs
I could not live my life the way that I
wanted to and quite frankly could not
process data in a way that made any
[__] sense whatsoever yeah so when I
hear people talk about that I kind of
get what they mean like there is there
is a an openness to kids there's a
sponge-like quality which can be
wonderful but it can also be deeply
problematic because that you talk very
powerfully about how your environment
shapes you just massively and so when
you say like it brings you back in a
positive way to like a childlike quality
what what is that magic what are the
qualities that people should be striving
towards yeah so the childlike aspect
that I think is is really great is I
like that language of you know almost
like like Calla saying or crystallizing
or calcifying you know we get calcified
in our ways as adults and a culture now
we get an indoctrinated into a certain
perspective and a certain movement and
the way that we think and feel
what's pretty interesting about a child
is they're directly in relation with
nature they're directly relation with
gravity as well you know so from a
mechanical
perspective because a child doesn't have
all of the muscles to kind of hold
themselves into these strange contrived
positions they have to just sit up and
find this perfect stack an alignment in
gravity but then there is a time that
perhaps a baby needs to walk across a
busy road you know and then all of a
sudden it's pretty darn helpful be like
I've got some culture and doctrine ation
that knows how those stoplights work and
I'm gonna be able to move us across here
together it's almost like it seems like
you're taking care of the child but in
fact you know obviously the child's just
an extension of you and in many cases
the child is taking care of the parents
you know because they're showing them
that side of compassion and love and you
know being completely sometimes
uncomfortably honest with the situation
you know so I think that not to
romanticize being a child or being an
adult it's usually like somewhere in
between so I think they both have have
value ya know that makes a lot of sense
talk to me about that notion of our
environment has these massive
repercussions on us what should people
be aware of that maybe they're not what
is sort of an ideal environment and
maybe that changes from time to time
yeah
so one thing fall risk for elderly you
know recently in an interview just a few
days ago I was like literally brought to
tears thinking about the idea of my mom
falling on the ground and not being able
to get up from the ground you know being
80 years old or whatever age and like
just thinking of like okay I'm here I'm
doing all my somebody nests and I'm
doing interviews I'm making books and
all that and then my mom's at home and
she slipped and she fell and she can't
get up but if you come from a culture
that gets up and down off the ground
with regularity you know so like you
know Southeast Asia or northern Africa
or eastern Mediterranean places like
that there shouldn't have minimal to no
instance of osteoarthritis of the hips
really low in the knees fall risk just
doesn't exist your body is is built and
to go all the way down to the ground all
the way back up you know and then we
kind of got this idea of you know like
the disease of affluence or affluenza so
it's like okay if I sit up on the chair
above all of you then I'm kind of I'm
back into my somebody nasai min control
I'm the boss
you know I sit up in my Range Rover and
then I sit in my prestigious leather
chair and you know or maybe now I got
like a standing desk you know because
I'm progressive you know so now I stand
in place while I stare into my screen
you know and what we've been doing
forever is we've been spending a lot of
time on the ground and as you're going
down to the ground you're mobilizing
your knees or mobilizing your ankles
you're mobilizing your hips you're
circulating lymphatic fluid then rate to
move that fluid it's through muscular
contraction so I'm saying is our bodies
have been it's like an internal healing
mechanism it's kind of like with your
computer it has like a you know and you
goes into sleep mode it'll go in and
kind of like restore the files and clean
the files up essentially that's what
those positions in the book of
compositions of repose you know so when
you're resting it's literally the other
side of the coin of your fitness now so
the way that you sit it's just as
valuable as the way that you work out in
the gym or do any of your more like
active stuff and it's important that if
you are going to spend more time on the
ground to make it really comfortable and
make it very inhabitable and so yet get
a really comfy rug get some like floor
pillows get some Moroccan poof's you
know put it near a window which is
another part of exercising your
physiology looking out into the distance
literally activates more of that
parasympathetic side of your nervous
system when we're contracting our eyes
through staring up close all day long
that contraction from that sense
essentially is redistributed through the
rest of the body so if you're feeling
stressed out tense and contracted and
then you come home and you're like man I
just need to take a break I need a chill
Instagram you're literally making the
problem worse you know what you really
need is you need to put the phone down
you need to take a walk you need to get
sun exposure to your skin you need to
get sun exposure to your eyes you need
to look up into the trees look up into
the clouds that literally start to open
you up at a cellular emotional physical
all the levels if you open up any level
you open up the rest of the levels you
know so the way that our world is
structured
the mold that we inhabit presently is
geared toward the direction of stress
you know and so then when you look like
ADHD medication for ADHD is going up
from 2008 to 2016 it's going up 89% with
adolescents you know and so that's like
the kids like they want to move and they
want to walk and they want to climb
trees and they want to wrestle and they
want to push and they want to play and
they want express themselves sexually
you know but instead we put all that
down and then the person starts to kind
of have a weird tic you know because
they're coming out of themselves they
always say okay well we could change the
environment that would be expensive
medication you know and soon all of a
sudden we're altering their neuro
chemistry from the inside as opposed to
altering their environment from the
outside so talk to me about that what is
an environment that we should be
cultivating so we should be getting out
and walking got that one looking at a
distance that's good what what else
hang-hang what does that mean literally
hang yeah it's super simple man like all
the simple stuff is you know it's it's
the most effective and the book I
recommended a minute and a half total
each day you know get a little pull-up
bar 30 bucks on Amazon or whatever we
get you we'll get you there or I'll find
a tree branch would be even better and
literally just reach up you could play
with you know all-terrain contraction
more the index finger or pinky kind of
make it more dynamic if you want but
just that action of getting your arms up
overhead and starting to decompress that
shoulder girdle you're starting to open
up the ribs open up the lungs open up
the heart now so our viscera our organs
they're not just these isolated bags
inside of a vacuum they function based
off of your movement you know so we
think of oh I'm gonna do a liver cleanse
you know I'm gonna like change my
physiology through what I put into my
face meanwhile we very rarely think
about like what about getting in and
like actually coming in contact with
these places but just taking a walk
you're you could think of this visceral
system kind of like a rag and you're
twisting that rag out if you have a
bunch of gunk in that rag in order to
get the gunk out you go what activating
your feet all that tissue and your lower
body it not only is
good like a nice foot massage but it
stimulates your brain by going up in
different contours you're teaching more
sophistication and around every joint
through your body you know so have you
tried slacklining
no okay well since lot have you've ever
seen someone tries running it's [__]
amazing alright you know so when a
person is starting to slackline for the
first time they'll step their foot up on
the line and typically the first
reactions are foot sleep like pretty
easy you know what's happening there is
this don't have any sophistication in
their nervous system in and around that
hip and the ankle and what happens is
you start to cultivate that
sophistication a little bit through just
repetition spending more time in that in
stable environment all of a sudden you
can you can calm down you can press your
foot down to the line stand up you can
follow your breath and you know what
we're doing and from a movement
perspective in the world is because
we're taking away any potential for
adaptation we're making ourselves kind
of almost like more of a dangerous body
to operate your notion of like all these
micro opportunities I think is really
really interesting and I want to walk
people through just since I've met you
which is now maybe 40 minutes ago yeah
you showed up at the house without your
shirt when I greet you you're laying on
the floor and then you wanted to do yoga
before we started I said no backer and
then you I don't know what that means
okay and then took off your shoes to sit
down so it's like you legit are taking
all of these micro opportunities I
haven't seen you hanging it mmm but I'll
assume that you probably do take those
opportunities as well so all right those
are four things what are some other
micro opportunities that we have are you
getting up and down off the floor like a
bunch of times throughout the day
I mean think of a person that lives in
you know a more like tribal environment
or hunter-gatherer more like a natural
setting naturally their body's gonna go
through these ranges of motions if
you've spent in any time in like third
world countries which is kind of funny
term the concept of exercise is very
foreign you know it's just somebody
wearing a bunch of like like a neon vest
and like a sun protective cap thing and
they got their puffy sneakers on and
they're like
exorcising down the street you were like
what the hell is going on like what
planet are they from you know because
they're investing themselves in all of
those opportunities for adaptation just
for the way they live their life you
know so yeah I wrote the almost the
whole book from either this position
like I'm in kind of like a suit cosmetic
position now or a lot of it was I was
laying on my belly you know and I'd put
a pillow underneath my hips so I'm not
putting too much extense an extension in
my lower back
you know so what is that oh that's the
inverse of what I spent most of my life
as a high school middle school what I'm
trying to tell the teachers that I don't
give a [__] you know I'm trying to let
people know that I'm very cool you know
so I kind of walk around like this and
you know what that is is for me it's
protecting myself because if I fail I
was never even trying in the first place
you know so I start to put on that
posture of just so you know guys I don't
actually care about any of this right
now
but then eventually that kind of
disinclined me or calloused myself from
allowing people in so I started off
postural II in this position of letting
you know that I don't really care about
this experience or you or anything
because I actually don't wanna be hurt
by you because I maybe have fear of
abandonment and then eventually that
posture sticks on to me and it affects
the way that I communicate with people
in my daily life and then I start to go
into this life of Solitude so you
actually think this rabbit hole is
really interesting so talk to me about
that talk to me a little bit about what
happened with your dad and how your life
is a reaction to where you started you
said that you had a pretty sort of
bright line at 18 that sent you on a
whole new path yeah yeah I had a really
miraculous experience of my dad becoming
really addicted to drugs crack
specifically around when I was 16 and
yeah he ended up I mean it was really
bad he was like essentially on the very
he's hanging on to life by like a hair
you know like the fact that he was like
I would literally rehearse his death
every day probably I don't know like a
strange number of times
82 more than that times just like going
through like bracing like okay
pretty sure this is it you know somebody
to come home and he's gonna be you know
overdosed rumor he's gonna I'm gonna get
a call this gonna be gone but the
aftermath of that is one changing my my
posture changing my emotions I kind of
went through like it's called anhedonia
which is essentially like feeling numb
to the world like no I don't feel happy
I don't feel sad everything is just this
kind of gray and you're so getting to
experience that and then seeing the
byproduct was I went into hiding in the
form of bodybuilding no so I went in and
yeah I think you can go like multiple
directions with with things like that
when you're in kind of a numb place you
can you know go off and maybe start
hurting other people or you can go off
and hurt yourself or maybe you start
just doing the route that I did and just
packing on muscle you know and kind of
showing people that I'm strong and I'm
in control you know so my home
environment at the time felt like it was
out of control so then I go into
excessive control and support in my body
you know and then eventually that leads
to the body snapping you know and so
that learned turned into various
different injuries and chronic pain and
stress and anxiety and all that you know
it's like a building you know if you up
or in a you know a high-rise you can
feel the building kind of swaying a
little bit and if you don't know about
architecture you're like oh my god like
this is not okay
you're like no no no like the swaying
like that's what keeps us alive that's
what keeps us safe you know so because
they came from a place of feeling like
oh I'm out of control
I go into hyper control which eventually
goes into a stiff building which
eventually can translate into like
snapping and that's the thing that's
where it gets really kind of sneaky as I
was applauded you know and that's you
know we get applauded for getting a
fancier car for getting more muscles for
getting fancier clothes getting a
fancier watch you know like those are
the things that people say like wow
you're really doing a great job man you
know you're like okay I need to do more
of that you know but it's it's not so
often that we get applauded for like the
inner parts because people don't really
see that you know ramadasa another thing
where you said you can't teach what you
know you can only teach what you are you
know and so
the person that is living their life
they're living their words they're
living their work their that's what
they're teaching what you were about the
whole time is how you actually live your
life when nobody's looking you know and
so that's more interested in that now
yeah that we share
so if hanging walking barefoot really
testing yourself from different angles
and doing natural things like squatting
down and not losing sight of that if
that's the the alignment method for the
body
what's the align method for the mind mmm
yeah I mean all that is is for the mind
but then I also do value stillness
you know cetacean stillness or something
different both what is the different
part I think that will starting off just
meditation I think every time those
thoughts come in to control us and shake
us up we say okay cool that's good you
know it's totally fine you know and then
we come back to that concentration point
you know and then it comes through Mitch
fix us up and come back to that
concentration point the same thing how
you can practice compassion you know I
think a compassionate person isn't just
a person that is like oh well like
they're a great guy it's like no like
they worked you know if you're a
competitive immerse in if you're a
person that makes people feel welcome
that's something that you cultivated
like you actually intentionally made
that be a thing you know and so the same
thing I think gaining some semblance of
connection or control or relationship
would be at a better word with your
thoughts
I think stillness in the form of
meditation I think is like a great
starting point that's been one of the
most profound tools that I've had in my
life what kind of meditation do you do
the piscina is though is the one that
I've I've studied the most so I did like
a the pasta vase is just silent it's
focusing on the breath to start through
the nose then you have the attention to
start to focus on other parts throughout
your body you know so then the vapp
asana meditation is bringing awareness
into the top of your head and the side
of your face and your ears and your nose
and your neck and your nipples and your
like all the way
down through it's almost like you're
going through and starting to heal those
different parts of yourself know so when
people have pain in their body
oftentimes they'll create a disconnect
or disassociation you know and so what
you're doing in that experience of just
sitting down and taking away all of the
distractions so a hundred percent of
your bandwidth is going into what's
happening inside of yourself you're
almost like slowly starting to crack a
light into those different parts that
heave you've disconnected from because
they're too painful and then you know he
says eventually become enlightened
is there a pain management aspect to
that like in yeah in the awareness is it
have you done it is it I've heard people
talk about like imagining a dial and
you're turning it down yeah yeah you
knew that Sood wank of the reason that
he got so enamored by meditation in the
first place he's like one of the
wealthiest people in India he's going
now but he had these really debilitating
headaches and so he's this wealthy
businessman he's got the whole world by
the balls but he's his face feels like
it's gonna explode all day long and he
saw every doctor cuz he had all this
money so he went around the world all
the medications like all the technology
everything he could do and then finally
he discovered this for pasta meditation
and yeah there's different little like
tactics and tools that people play with
and then what I found as I would kind of
go in and go deeper deeper deeper and
trying to visualize see the pain which
is a strange thing to do I'd find
eventually you'd get to the bottom of it
and there was there was several moments
where I'd literally get to the bottom of
it and it would kind of like it would
like compostable go away you know so
pain in the body there's a guy called
dr. John Sarno wrote mind of her back
pain and he claims that a very high
percentage of people's chronic pain he
calls it tension Myositis is actually a
product of repressed anger or repressed
you know sadness just general repression
and it's a fascinating thing when you
start to go in and shine the light on
those places of yourself that may have
been repressed since maybe you were a
little little boy or a little girl and
you start to really just like whatever
it is I see you and I accept it and I
love it
a lot of people
shame around having a penis or having a
vagina or even taking their shirt off
like why are you so okay with wearing a
shirt or wearing the watch or all those
things like that's not even your skin
and you're proud of it no but you have
all this shame wrapped around the stuff
underneath that you know so I feels to
me is if we can get to a point where we
have complete utter acceptance of every
aspect of ourselves all of a sudden it's
like you know we start to do that with
other people and you know the world
becomes more loving how do you so one I
love the notion of accept yourself but I
also love the notion of and I'm so
curious to see how you react to this
you're not good enough yet mmm so for me
it's like this constant knowing when to
push on one and when to push on the
other so anytime where you're eroding
your sense of self I think that's
problematic and if you're thinking and
believing something that is tearing you
down and making you like yourself less I
would say don't do that but at the same
time if you want to achieve something
extraordinary even to go deep into
meditation is a sense of I could have
more peace I could feel better in some
way and so it's crossing that chasm of
skillset and so knowing when to go I'm
not good at this yet I want to get
better I'm gonna force myself to stay
focused even though I don't want to go
back and sit down and do another pop
asana meditation session I'm going to
because I want to be able to you know
heal the pain somewhere in my body or
whatever the thing of connection is
you're trying to do I find that there
has to be a desire to be in a different
state so how do you balance the like
complete acceptance with but also there
are things that I want to accomplish
yeah well so I think oftentimes in
conversations like this it's easy for a
person to put them a position of like a
rival you know and okay cool I've
arrived and you know I'm up here and let
me tell you how you do that
I mean I go through self-worth stuff
like before coming over here you know
like it's a regular daily experience for
me and I think that within that I think
talking about it is a really big deal
you know because I think we try to
protect ourselves behind all the things
that I already mentioned and then I
protect and then you protect to counter
that and then we kind of live this like
buffered relationship
it's important I think to talk about
these things you know and make it make a
point to say you know what like yeah I'm
dealing with self-worth stuff or I'm
dealing with I don't feel good like it's
it's it's okay to not feel okay and then
I think that it's okay to want something
different but the the journey is in
really embracing and loving the moment
now and then naturally more like the
child he or she is able to move within
that field of gravity and naturally find
that new motion and know well now I'm
squatting and now I'm standing and now I
felt well I push up and I come back and
I went through this journey wow I'm back
from standing and it was like wow you're
so beautiful it's amazing but meanwhile
the kid had no idea that its end goal
was to you know stand or walk or
whatever it was just kind of dancing and
moving and enjoying that sensation of
pushing and twisting and turning you
know so I think that if you miss out on
your life essentially because you're
always trying to go for that arrive at
that place the place won't come because
you're patterning yourself for that
mindset at some point I'll be there now
so as love if that's your mindset that
you're patterning there's no such thing
is there it's just false summit after
fall summon after fall summit so
certainly you can get to the point more
like that child and enjoy the process of
rolling over to your side and standing
up and walking and smiling and then
eventually you will arrive you know but
I think that it's it's valuable valuable
to have goals but you knew you want to
be able to appreciate the moment and the
journey as you're going well sad where
can people find out more about you hmm
well the book the alignment book comes
out December 24th it'll be on pre-sale
at the align book calm and then there
would be some bonuses and such the
people can get with that if they get on
a pre-sale and then afterwards any
bookstore anywhere do you find books and
then I host the align podcast and yeah
everything's aligned podcast so social
media is my podcast
instagrams where I'm most I frequent the
most as I'm slowly weaning myself away
from my cell phone addiction but that's
the place that I'm at the most
nice if you were gonna have people make
one change that would have the biggest
impact on their health what change would
you have them make can I see one and a
half
sure okay so the ones hands you the one
tangible thing like mechanical do it
right now
is literally just spend more time on the
ground you know so that literally could
be like keep your couch and just bring
your legs up on the couch or maybe you
know lie down on your back more often
put your feet up on the side like look
at your chair apparatus as more of an
opportunity for wellness you know so if
you see a again back to the kid
romanticizing the kid get onto a chair
they don't see it the way that adults
see is like okay I sit and plus I kind
of hunched over and then I get the phone
out like okay doing it you know they're
like oh I may want to twist and turn
explore you know so look at all of the
stuff even in Western culture all of
those are just opportunities if we just
kind of change the filter that we
perceive it so and just spend more time
in the ground in general and then the
less tangible thing I think is I think
actively cultivate compassion to go back
to what we were saying before like make
that be a focus today as when you're out
in the world when you have those
opportunities of someone kind of doing
something that would like trigger you
see it as an opportunity to be able to
help as opposed to just an opportunity
like SWAT them down you know so actively
cultivate compassion I think would be
the thing that I would say nice I like
both of those guys this dude definitely
lives what he talks I will just vouch
for everything in the hour and a half
that I have known him it has been
spot-on exactly the stuff that he
preaches so I can't give it a higher
recommendation than that if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe until next
time my friends be legendary
take care
thank you guys so much for watching and
being a part of this community if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe
you're gonna get weekly videos on
building a growth mindset cultivating
grit and unlocking your full potential